some females breeding on coral reefs
have become a little more cunning in
blue chromis females take a calculated
gamble and leave their eggs with the
black fin males each female quickly lays
her eggs and as the male fertilizes them
she leaves these future father's must
now abandon sex and play Guardian for a
very good reason
gangs of pseudo catfish Hoover up eggs
and offspring alike
being a protective father is the only
way to ensure the survival of his
offspring here - in the shallow waters
of Lake Malawi predators have forced
fish into parenting these young cichlids
have not been abandoned they are under
the watchful eye of this time their
mother when danger threatens she
performs the most bizarre parental
behavior of any fish
the female is a mouth brooder and guards
her group of fry by allowing them back
in and out of her mouth
the blue mail meanwhile is free to
solicit for more females the female is
literally left holding the babies but
since the fryer mobile and can feed
themselves she can now cope as a single
parent